DOC: Created an indexing how-to (#20093)
numpy/numpy: doc/source/user/how-to-index.rst

    >>> y = 0
    >>> a[y, :, y+3]
    array([ 3,  8, 13])

Index along a specific axis
---------------------------

Use :meth:`take`. See also :meth:`take_along_axis` and
:meth:`put_along_axis`.

    >>> np.take(a, [2, 3], axis=2)
    array([[[ 2,  3],
            [ 7,  8],
            [12, 13]],
    <BLANKLINE>
            [[17, 18],
            [22, 23],
            [27, 28]]])
    >>> np.take(a, [2], axis=1)
    array([[[10, 11, 12, 13, 14]],
    <BLANKLINE>
            [[25, 26, 27, 28, 29]]])

Index columns
-------------

Use :ref:`dimensional-indexing-tools` to avoid shape mismatches::

    >>> arr = np.arange(3*4).reshape(3, 4)
    >>> column_indices = [[1, 3], [0, 2], [2, 2]]
    >>> np.arange(arr.shape[0])[:, np.newaxis]
    array([[0],
           [1],
           [2]])
    >>> arr[np.arange(arr.shape[0])[:, np.newaxis], column_indices]
    array([[ 1,  3],
           [ 4,  6],
           [10, 10]])

Create subsets of larger matrices
=================================

Use :ref:`slicing-and-striding` to access chunks of an array.
But if you want to access multiple scattered elements to create
complicated subsets, you have to use :ref:`advanced-indexing`. Use

> :func:`ix_` to quickly contruct index arrays::

Reviewer: I don't remember specifically, but I generally agree.

.. currentmodule:: numpy

.. _how-to-index.rst:

*****************************************
How to index :class:`ndarrays <.ndarray>`
*****************************************

.. seealso:: :ref:`basics.indexing`

This page tackles common examples. For an in-depth look into indexing, refer
to :ref:`basics.indexing`.

> Access specific/arbitary rows and columns

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access specific/arbitrary rows and columns
```

    >>> a[0, 2, :]
    array([10, 11, 12, 13, 14])
    >>> a[0, :, 3]
    array([ 3,  8, 13])
    
Note that the output from indexing operations can have different shape as the
original object. To preserve the original dimensions after indexing, you can
use :func:`newaxis`. To use other such tools, refer to
:ref:`dimensional-indexing-tools`.

    >>> a[0, :, 3].shape
    (3,)
    >>> a[0, :, 3, np.newaxis].shape
    (3, 1)
    >>> a[0, :, 3, np.newaxis, np.newaxis].shape
    (3, 1, 1)

Variables can also be used to index::

    >>> y = 0
    >>> a[y, :, y+3]
    array([ 3,  8, 13])

Refer to :ref:`dealing-with-variable-indices` to see how to use
:term:`python:slice` and :py:data:`Ellipsis` in your index variables.

Index along a specific axis
---------------------------

Use :meth:`take`. See also :meth:`take_along_axis` and
:meth:`put_along_axis`.

    >>> np.take(a, [2, 3], axis=2)
    array([[[ 2,  3],
            [ 7,  8],
            [12, 13]],
    <BLANKLINE>
            [[17, 18],
            [22, 23],
            [27, 28]]])
    >>> np.take(a, [2], axis=1)
    array([[[10, 11, 12, 13, 14]],
    <BLANKLINE>
            [[25, 26, 27, 28, 29]]])

Index columns
-------------

> Use :ref:`dimensional-indexing-tools` to avoid shape mismatches::

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this is very clear on first read - maybe show what would happen if you used a "naive" approach here first?

    array([[ 1,  3],
           [ 4,  6],
           [10, 10]])

Create subsets of larger matrices
=================================

Use :ref:`slicing-and-striding` to access chunks of a large array::

    >>> a = np.arange(100).reshape(10, 10)
    >>> a
    array([[ 0,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9],
            [10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19],
            [20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29],
            [30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39],
            [40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49],
            [50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59],
            [60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69],
            [70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79],
            [80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89],
            [90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99]])
    >>> a[2:5, 2:5]
    array([[22, 23, 24],
           [32, 33, 34],
           [42, 43, 44]])
    >>> a[2:5, 1:3]
    array([[21, 22],
           [31, 32],
           [41, 42]])
    >>> a[:5, :5]
    array([[ 0,  1,  2,  3,  4],
           [10, 11, 12, 13, 14],
           [20, 21, 22, 23, 24],
           [30, 31, 32, 33, 34],
           [40, 41, 42, 43, 44]])

> The same thing can be done with advanced indexing in a slightly complex

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same thing can be done with advanced indexing in a slightly more complex
```

> way. Remember that advanced indexing creates a copy::

Reviewer 2: (I suggest linking to the views vs. copies document here)

    >>> a[np.arange(5)[:,None], np.arange(5)[None,:]]
    array([[ 0,  1,  2,  3,  4],
           [10, 11, 12, 13, 14],
           [20, 21, 22, 23, 24],
           [30, 31, 32, 33, 34],
           [40, 41, 42, 43, 44]])

You can also use :meth:`mgrid` to generate indices::

    >>> indices = np.mgrid[0:6:2]
    >>> indices
    array([0, 2, 4])
    >>> a[:, indices]
    array([[ 0,  2,  4],
           [10, 12, 14],
           [20, 22, 24],
           [30, 32, 34],
           [40, 42, 44],
           [50, 52, 54],
           [60, 62, 64],
           [70, 72, 74],
           [80, 82, 84],
           [90, 92, 94]])

Filter values
=============

Non-zero elements
-----------------

Use :meth:`nonzero` to get a tuple of array indices of non-zero elements 
corresponding to every dimension::

	>>> z = np.eye(3)
	>>> z
	array([[1., 0., 0.],
           [0., 1., 0.],
           [0., 0., 1.]])
	>>> np.nonzero(z)

> 	(array([0, 1, 2]), array([0, 1, 2]))

Reviewer 2: Can we change this to a slightly less trivial example? I think mixing values for indices should be avoided when possible

    >>> np.argmax(a)
    29
    >>> np.argmin(a)
    0

Use the ``axis`` keyword to get the indices of maximum and minimum
values along a specific axis::

    >>> np.argmax(a, axis=0)
    array([[1, 1, 1, 1, 1],
           [1, 1, 1, 1, 1],
           [1, 1, 1, 1, 1]])
    >>> np.argmax(a, axis=1)
    array([[2, 2, 2, 2, 2],
           [2, 2, 2, 2, 2]])
    >>> np.argmax(a, axis=2)
    array([[4, 4, 4],
           [4, 4, 4]])
    <BLANKLINE>
    >>> np.argmin(a, axis=1)
    array([[0, 0, 0, 0, 0],
           [0, 0, 0, 0, 0]])
    >>> np.argmin(a, axis=2)
    array([[0, 0, 0],
           [0, 0, 0]])

Set ``keepdims`` to ``True`` to keep the axes which are reduced in the
result as dimensions with size one::

    >>> np.argmin(a, axis=2, keepdims=True)
    array([[[0],
            [0],
            [0]],
    <BLANKLINE>
           [[0],
            [0],
            [0]]])
    >>> np.argmax(a, axis=1, keepdims=True)
    array([[[2, 2, 2, 2, 2]],
    <BLANKLINE>
           [[2, 2, 2, 2, 2]]])

Index the same ndarray multiple times efficiently
=================================================

It must be kept in mind that basic indexing produces :term:`views <view>`

> and advanced indexing produces :term:`copies <copy>`, which takes
> more time. Hence, you should take care to use basic indexing wherever

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and advanced indexing produces :term:`copies <copy>`, which are
computationally less efficient. Hence, you should take care to use
basic indexing wherever
```

.. currentmodule:: numpy

.. _how-to-index.rst:

*****************************************
How to index :class:`ndarrays <.ndarray>`
*****************************************

.. seealso:: :ref:`basics.indexing`

This page tackles common examples. For an in-depth look into indexing, refer
to :ref:`basics.indexing`.

Access specific/arbitrary rows and columns
==========================================

Use :ref:`basic-indexing` features like :ref:`slicing-and-striding`, and

> :ref:`dimensional-indexing-tools`.

Reviewer 3: The rendered page for the latest commit https://23276-908607-gh.circle-artifacts.com/0/doc/build/html/user/how-to-index.html is showing italic text for all the output. Does the line before the indent need a `:` or is a code formatting directive needed to force <code> format?

Author: I think it is always like that? I checked a couple of other examples. I didn't use `:` in some places because I didn't think it was appropriate...

Reviewer 3: ok. let's put this in as-is, we can always iterate on the formatting.
